.TH uncat 1
.SH NAME
uncat \- continuously reads stdin, splits up the data either by timeout or
number of bytes read to process it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uncat
[\-vo]
[\-t
.IR seconds ]
[\-s
.IR size ]
.I prog
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uncat
continuously reads stdin and repeatedly processes the data either after
.I seconds
timeout or maximal number of bytes
.I size
read. To process the data,
.B uncat
starts
.I prog
and feeds the data into
.IR prog 's
standard input.
.IR prog 's
standard output is redirected to standard error.
.B uncat
never writes to standard output.
.LP
.I prog
consist of one or more arguments.
.LP
If
.I prog
exits non-zero,
.B uncat
prints an error message, discards the data and continues to read
stdin.
.LP
Note that
.B uncat
is not crash proof.
.LP
.B uncat
is used to run the
.I socklog-notify
service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v
verbose. Print verbose messages to stderr.
.TP
.B \-o
once. Exit on end of input. Normally
.B uncat
continues waiting for data on standard input, even on end of file.
.TP
.B \-t \fIseconds
timeout. Set the timeout to
.I seconds
seconds. Default is 300.
.TP
.B \-s \fIsize
Set the maximal number of bytes to
.IR size .
Default is 1024.
.SH SIGNALS
If
.B uncat
receives a TERM signal, it starts to process the data in memory and exits
as soon as possible.
.LP
.B uncat
also does this on end of input if the
.B \-o
option was given.
.SH EXIT CODES
.B uncat
returns 0 after receiving a TERM signal.
.B uncat
returns 111 on error.
.SH SEE ALSO
socklog(8),
socklog-conf(8),
sv(8),
runsv(8),
svlogd(8),
tryto(1)
.LP
 http://smarden.org/socklog/
 http://smarden.org/runit/
.SH AUTHOR
Gerrit Pape <pape@smarden.org>
